# On Ingredients

I want to start off by discussing cost of ingredients. When you start out, it
will seem very expensive to buy everything you need to stock a kitchen from
nothing. However, the costs will quickly even out over time and you will find
that you can make delicious food for a fraction of what it would cost you at a
restaurant while getting better taste and nutrition than a prepared meal you
could purchase. With the right approach, you will also waste less food - but
don't be too preoccupied with this while learning. You'll need to throw out
some bad batches before you figure out how you like things.

Using a lot of non-perishable ingredients can allow you to spend less time and
energy worrying about what you may or may not have on hand. Typically, the only
perishable ingredients I need to be consistently aware of are dairy products.

Other than things like flour and sugar which have a long shelf life in the
pantry, there is an easy way to get things typically refrigerated to last a
very long time.

## Frozen Ingredients

When you think of frozen food, you may imagine that it's lower quality by
default. While this was often true in the past, modern flash freezing can keep
meat, fish, and vegetables good for several months.

Slow freezing methods result in larger shards of ice which can puncture and
damage plant and animal tissue, often giving things the mushy texture you may
associate with frozen food. Flash freezing, on the other hand, creates more,
smaller pieces of ice which do not cause damage, nearly perfectly preserving
the food.

Keep in mind that if you are freezing something yourself, i.e. it was not
purchased frozen, you should freeze it as soon as possible. The item's typical
unfrozen lifetime is essentially paused (though really it's just extended by
quite a lot) when it is frozen, so if something is already near the end of its
lifespan, it will still have very little time left once thawed. Additionally,
since you likely don't have flash freezing equipment, you will get a lower
quality frozen item. I don't recommend freezing things yourself. If you want
something frozen, simply buy it frozen.

Meat usually needs to be thawed before use. This can easily be accomplished by
simply moving it into the refrigerator the night before. This method is very
safe, as the meat is not at risk of reaching a dangerous temperature. You can
thaw meat more quickly by placing it in a bowl full of water with the tap
running slowly to ensure that there is a supply of more warm water.

Fruits and vegetables can typically be used frozen directly in most recipes.
Thawing them before use can result in a change in the amount of moisture that
they are expected to have.
